<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X: The Black Veil</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Black Veil</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Speaking the language fluently and with unlimited money, there was nothing to prevent my enjoying all that was enjoyable in the <span epub:type="z3998:nationality">French</span> capital. You may easily suppose how two days were passed. At the end of that time, and at about the same hour, Monsieur Droqville called again.</p>
			<p>Courtly, good-natured, gay, as usual, he told me that the masquerade ball was fixed for the next Wednesday, and that he had applied for a card for me.</p>
			<p>How awfully unlucky. I was so afraid I should not be able to go.</p>
			<p>He stared at me for a moment with a suspicious and menacing look which I did not understand, in silence, and then inquired, rather sharply.</p>
			<p>“And will Monsieur Beckett be good enough to say, why not?”</p>
			<p>I was a little surprised, but answered the simple truth: I had made an engagement for that evening with two or three <span epub:type="z3998:nationality">English</span> friends, and did not see how I could.</p>
			<p>“Just so! You <span epub:type="z3998:nationality">English</span>, wherever you are, always look out for your <span epub:type="z3998:nationality">English</span> boors, your beer and ‘<i xml:lang="pap">bifstek</i>’; and when you come here, instead of trying to learn something of the people you visit, and pretend to study, you are guzzling, and swearing, and smoking with one another, and no wiser or more polished at the end of your travels than if you had been all the time carousing in a booth at <span epub:type="z3998:place">Greenwich</span>.”</p>
			<p>He laughed sarcastically, and looked as if he could have poisoned me.</p>
			<p>“There it is,” said he, throwing the card on the table. “Take it or leave it, just as you please. I suppose I shall have my trouble for my pains; but it is not usual when a man, such as I, takes trouble, asks a favour, and secures a privilege for an acquaintance, to treat him so.”</p>
			<p>This was astonishingly impertinent!</p>
			<p>I was shocked, offended, penitent. I had possibly committed unwittingly a breach of good-breeding, according to <span epub:type="z3998:nationality">French</span> ideas, which almost justified the brusque severity of the Marquis’s undignified rebuke.</p>
			<p>In a confusion, therefore, of many feelings, I hastened to make my apologies, and to propitiate the chance friend who had showed me so much disinterested kindness.</p>
			<p>I told him that I would, at any cost, break through the engagement in which I had unluckily entangled myself; that I had spoken with too little reflection, and that I certainly had not thanked him at all in proportion to his kindness and to my real estimate of it.</p>
			<p>“Pray say not a word more; my vexation was entirely on your account; and I expressed it, I am only too conscious, in terms a great deal too strong, which, I am sure, your good nature will pardon. Those who know me a little better are aware that I sometimes say a good deal more than I intend; and am always sorry when I do. Monsieur Beckett will forget that his old friend, Monsieur Droqville, has lost his temper in his cause, for a moment, and⁠—we are as good friends as before.”</p>
			<p>He smiled like the Monsieur Droqville of the <span xml:lang="fr">Belle Étoile</span>, and extended his hand, which I took very respectfully and cordially.</p>
			<p>Our momentary quarrel had left us only better friends.</p>
			<p>The Marquis then told me I had better secure a bed in some hotel at <span epub:type="z3998:place">Versailles</span>, as a rush would be made to take them; and advised my going down next morning for the purpose.</p>
			<p>I ordered horses accordingly for eleven o’clock; and, after a little more conversation, the Marquis d’Harmonville bid me good night, and ran down the stairs with his handkerchief to his mouth and nose, and, as I saw from my window, jumped into his close carriage again and drove away.</p>
			<p>Next day I was at <span epub:type="z3998:place">Versailles</span>. As I approached the door of the Hotel de France, it was plain that I was not a moment too soon, if, indeed, I were not already too late.</p>
			<p>A crowd of carriages were drawn up about the entrance, so that I had no chance of approaching except by dismounting and pushing my way among the horses. The hall was full of servants and gentlemen screaming to the proprietor, who, in a state of polite distraction, was assuring them, one and all, that there was not a room or a closet disengaged in his entire house.</p>
			<p>I slipped out again, leaving the hall to those who were shouting, expostulating, wheedling, in the delusion that the host might, if he pleased, manage something for them. I jumped into my carriage and drove, at my horses’ best pace, to the Hotel du Reservoir. The blockade about this door was as complete as the other. The result was the same. It was very provoking, but what was to be done? My postillion had, a little officiously, while I was in the hall talking with the hotel authorities, got his horses, bit by bit, as other carriages moved away, to the very steps of the inn door.</p>
			<p>This arrangement was very convenient so far as getting in again was concerned. But, this accomplished, how were we to get on? There were carriages in front, and carriages behind, and no less than four rows of carriages, of all sorts, outside.</p>
			<p>I had at this time remarkably long and clear sight, and if I had been impatient before, guess what my feelings were when I saw an open carriage pass along the narrow strip of roadway left open at the other side, a barouche in which I was certain I recognized the veiled Countess and her husband. This carriage had been brought to a walk by a cart which occupied the whole breadth of the narrow way, and was moving with the customary tardiness of such vehicles.</p>
			<p>I should have done more wisely if I had jumped down on the trottoir, and run round the block of carriages in front of the barouche. But, unfortunately, I was more of a Murat than a Moltke, and preferred a direct charge upon my object to relying on <i xml:lang="fr">tactique</i>. I dashed across the back seat of a carriage which was next mine, I don’t know how; tumbled through a sort of gig, in which an old gentleman and a dog were dozing; stepped with an incoherent apology over the side of an open carriage, in which were four gentlemen engaged in a hot dispute; tripped at the far side in getting out, and fell flat across the backs of a pair of horses, who instantly began plunging and threw me head foremost in the dust.</p>
			<p>To those who observed my reckless charge without being in the secret of my object I must have appeared demented. Fortunately, the interesting barouche had passed before the catastrophe, and covered as I was with dust, and my hat blocked, you may be sure I did not care to present myself before the object of my quixotic devotion.</p>
			<p>I stood for a while amid a storm of <em>sacré</em>-ing, tempered disagreeably with laughter; and in the midst of these, while endeavouring to beat the dust from my clothes with my handkerchief, I heard a voice with which I was acquainted call, “Monsieur Beckett.”</p>
			<p>I looked and saw the Marquis peeping from a carriage-window. It was a welcome sight. In a moment I was at his carriage side.</p>
			<p>“You may as well leave <span epub:type="z3998:place">Versailles</span>,” he said; “you have learned, no doubt, that there is not a bed to hire in either of the hotels; and I can add that there is not a room to let in the whole town. But I have managed something for you that will answer just as well. Tell your servant to follow us, and get in here and sit beside me.”</p>
			<p>Fortunately an opening in the closely-packed carriages had just occurred, and mine was approaching.</p>
			<p>I directed the servant to follow us; and the Marquis having said a word to his driver, we were immediately in motion.</p>
			<p>“I will bring you to a comfortable place, the very existence of which is known to but few Parisians, where, knowing how things were here, I secured a room for you. It is only a mile away, and an old comfortable inn, called <span xml:lang="fr">Le Dragon Volant</span>. It was fortunate for you that my tiresome business called me to this place so early.”</p>
			<p>I think we had driven about a mile-and-a-half to the further side of the palace when we found ourselves upon a narrow old road, with the woods of <span epub:type="z3998:place">Versailles</span> on one side, and much older trees, of a size seldom seen in <span epub:type="z3998:place">France</span>, on the other.</p>
			<p>We pulled up before an antique and solid inn, built of Caen stone, in a fashion richer and more florid than was ever usual in such houses, and which indicated that it was originally designed for the private mansion of some person of wealth, and probably, as the wall bore many carved shields and supporters, of distinction also. A kind of porch, less ancient than the rest, projected hospitably with a wide and florid arch, over which, cut in high relief in stone, and painted and gilded, was the sign of the inn. This was the Flying Dragon, with wings of brilliant red and gold, expanded, and its tail, pale green and gold, twisted and knotted into ever so many rings, and ending in a burnished point barbed like the dart of death.</p>
			<p>“I shan’t go in⁠—but you will find it a comfortable place; at all events better than nothing. I would go in with you, but my incognito forbids. You will, I daresay, be all the better pleased to learn that the inn is haunted⁠—I should have been, in my young days, I know. But don’t allude to that awful fact in hearing of your host, for I believe it is a sore subject. Adieu. If you want to enjoy yourself at the ball take my advice, and go in a domino. I think I shall look in; and certainly, if I do, in the same costume. How shall we recognize one another? Let me see, something held in the fingers⁠—a flower won’t do, so many people will have flowers. Suppose you get a red cross a couple of inches long⁠—you’re an Englishman⁠—stitched or pinned on the breast of your domino, and I a white one? Yes, that will do very well; and whatever room you go into keep near the door till we meet. I shall look for you at all the doors I pass; and you, in the same way, for me; and we <em>must</em> find each other soon. So that is understood. I can’t enjoy a thing of that kind with any but a young person; a man of my age requires the contagion of young spirits and the companionship of someone who enjoys everything spontaneously. Farewell; we meet tonight.”</p>
			<p>By this time I was standing <em>on</em> the road; I shut the carriage-door; bid him goodbye; and away he drove.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
